---
title: "Chapter 1: Unreal Engine Setup"
date: 2025-03-20T17:28:24+08:00
tags: []
series: []
featured: true
---

## 1.1 Installation

### 1.1.1 Installation on Windows or macOS
1. Download the installer for Epic Games Launcher from the Unreal Engine's official website: [Download Unreal Engine](https://www.unrealengine.com/en-us/download).
2. Install Epic Games Launcher by running the installer. 
   - If you fail to install the launcher, you may try other reliable sources, such as Microsoft Store on Windows to install the launcher.
3. After running the Launcher, sign up for an Epic Games account if you don't have one (an account is required to use Unreal Engine).
4. Sign in to the Epic Games Launcher.
5. Install Unreal Engine inside the Epic Games Launcher.

### 1.1.2 Installation on Linux
- The Epic Games Launcher is not available on Linux, but precompiled builds or source code builds of Unreal Engine can be used. 
- To build Unreal Engine from Source, you may refer to this link: [Downloading Unreal Engine Source Code](https://dev.epicgames.com/documentation/en-us/unreal-engine/downloading-unreal-engine-source-code?application_version=5.3).
- To use a precompiled build, follow the procedures below:
  1. Open the Unreal Engine for Linux webpage: [Unreal Engine for Linux](https://www.unrealengine.com/en-US/linux). You will be prompted to create or sign into an Epic Games account, which is required to use Unreal Engine later. Sign in to access the page if you already have an account, otherwise click “Sign up” to create one with an email or with a listed social media or gaming platform account.
  2. Download the .zip file containing a version of Unreal Engine 5.3 or other version you need. Note that Unreal Engine 5.3 will be used in this guide.
  3. Unzip the contents of the .zip file to your desired installation directory.
  4. Run `Engine/Binaries/Linux/UnrealEditor` from the Terminal to launch the Unreal Engine.

### 1.1.3 Changing the Installation Location or Registering an Installation using the Epic Games Launcher
You have a chance to select the installation location for Unreal Engine when you install it with the Launcher. But if you want to move an existing installation to a new location or if a previous installation is not recognized, follow these steps:

1. Open the Epic Games Launcher, then click the Unreal Engine tab on the left sidebar, and click the Library tab on the top menu. After that, the first row on the page shows Unreal Engine versions with slots if installations exist.
2. Click the (+) button beside the text ENGINE VERSIONS, and then a dark slot should appear. Select the version you need to move or register by clicking the version number on that slot. 
3. Click the Browse button to choose an empty folder or create a new folder where you need to move or register the installation.
4. Optionally, modify the default engine components to install with Unreal Engine by clicking the Options button.
5. Click the Install button. When the text "Installing" appears on the version tile, click the (X) button to stop the installation. After that, a Resume button should appear on the tile after the cancellation of the installation.
6. Open the file explorer on your computer, such as Windows Explorer on Windows platform. Then, move the installation folder from the original location into the install location you’ve selected in step 2.
7. Open the Launcher window and then click the Resume button to resume the installation.

After completing the steps above, it may take some time for the Launcher to verify the installation. After that, you can launch the Unreal Engine.

## 1.2 Hardware and Software Specifications of Unreal Engine 5.3

### 1.2.1 Recommended Hardware
- **Processor:** Apple Silicon M3, or Quad-core Intel or AMD (2.5 GHz or faster)
- **Memory:** 16 GB or more
- **Video RAM:** 8 GB or more

### 1.2.2 Minimum Software Requirements for Running Unreal Engine 5.3


{{< tabs>}} 
{{% tab title="Windows" color="#00A4EF" %}} 
- **Operating System:** `Windows 10`  
- **DirectX Runtime:** `DirectX End-User Runtimes (June 2010)` 
{{% /tab %}} 

{{% tab title="macOS" color="#A2A2A2" %}} 
- **Recommended Operating System:** `Latest MacOS 13 Ventura`  
- **Minimum Operating System:** `macOS 12.5 Monterey`  
{{% /tab %}} 

{{% tab title="Linux" color="#FCC624" %}} 
- **Operating System:** `Any reasonable new Linux distro from CentOS 7.x and up`  
- **Linux Kernel Version:** `kernel 3.x or newer`  
- **Additional Dependencies:** `glibc 2.17 or newer (recommended 2.35 or newer)`  

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs>}} 